---
layout:     post
title:      "Ca II 8542 Å Brightenings Induced by a Solar Microflare"
subtitle:   "by Christoph Kuckein"
date:       2017-12-07 11:00:00
author:     "Leibniz Institute for Astrophysics Potsdam (AIP)"
#header-img: "img/img_2017-10-26.jpg"
published:  true
---

## Abstract
We study small-scale brightenings in Ca II 8542 Å line-core images to
determine their nature and effect on localized heating and mass transfer
in active regions. To that end, we analyzed high-resolution 2D
spectroscopic observations of an active region acquired with the GREGOR
Fabry-Perot Interferometer attached to the 1.5-meter GREGOR telescope on
Tenerife, Spain. The ground-based data were complemented with AIA and
HMI images from SDO.
Inversions of the spectra were carried out using NICOLE. We identified
three brightenings of sizes up to 2"x2". We found evidence that the
brightenings belonged to the footpoints of a microflare (MF). The
properties of the observed brightenings disqualified the scenarios of
Ellerman bombs or IRIS bombs. However, this MF shared some common
properties with flaring active-region fibrils or flaring arch filaments
(FAFs): (1) FAFs and MFs are both apparent in chromospheric and coronal
layers according to the AIA channels, and (2) both show flaring arches
with lifetimes of about 3.0-3.5 min and lengths of about 20". Moreover,
the inversions revealed heating by 600 K at the footpoint location in
the ambient chromosphere during the impulsive phase. Bidirectional flows
were present in the footpoints of the MF.

### Paper links

[Paper 1](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06861)

### Downloads

[Seminar video](../../../../videos/2017-12-07-Kuckein.mp4)
