---
layout:     post
title:      "Long-period Intensity Pulsations as a Manifestation of Coronal Loop Heating"
subtitle:   "by Clara Froment, ITA/UiO"
date:       2017-04-27 11:00:00
author:     "ITA/UiO"
header-img: "img/img_2017-04-27.jpg"
#published:  true
---


## Abstract

The discovery of long-period intensity pulsations in coronal loops brings a
major constraint for coronal loop heating theories. These EUV pulsations, with
periods between 2 and 16 hours, can be found in at least half of the observed
active regions, in particular in loops. They are understood to be due to
evaporation and condensations cycles, resulting of a quasi-constant and
highly-stratified heating. Such thermal cycles have long been predicted by
numerical simulations, in which loops are in a state of thermal non-equilibrium.
The thermal instability mechanism (runaway cooling and recombination) is thought
to be the main driver of the cooling phase of the cycle, which can result in the
generation of coronal rain and prominences.
During this talk I will present how we detect such pulsations and a detailed
thermal characterisation of these events with AIA/SDO. In a second part, I will
present a study involving 1D hydrodynamic simulations that are able to
reproduce the main characteristics of these events. Moreover, the parameter
space study conducted reveals that the occurrence of thermal non-equilibrium (TNE) cycles is sensitive to a combination of the loop geometry and heating parameters (asymmetry and heating
power). This naturally explains why these pulsations, remaining during several
days, are encountered in some loops but not in all. Moreover, this parameter
space study reveals multiple scenarios, in particular in terms of condensation
thermodynamics and localisations. These various scenarios need to be further
explored. Indeed, the characterisation of TNE cycles is a key step to constraint
the frequency and the location of the heating in solar coronal loops.

### ADS links

[Paper 1](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/2015ApJ...807..158F/abstract), [Paper 2](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/2017ApJ...835..272F/abstract)
