---
layout:     post
title:      "Non-LTE modelling of a filament in state of activation observed in Hα by the IBIS interferometer"
subtitle:   "by P. Schwartz (speaker), S. Gunár, P. Heinzel, J. Jenkins, D. Long"
date:       2018-10-18 11:00:00
author:     "Astronomical Institute, Slovak Academy of Sciences"
#header-img: "img/img_2017-10-26.jpg"
published:  true
---

## Abstract
We present development, current state and plans for future improvements
of our non-LTE 2D flux-tube model. The model is used for simulations of
spectroscopic observations in the Hα line of small-scale filaments
in active regions, arc filaments and filaments in state of activation.
We assume that filaments of these types are composed of flux-tubes located
in the transition region and/or corona and relatively cool plasma can flow
along these flux-tubes with various velocities. In the current state of the
model, the flux-tube system is approximated by a 2D horizontal slab where
its finite dimensions form its cross section and the infinite dimension
is directed along filament parallel to the solar surface. The isothermal
and isobaric slab is irradiated from the bottom and sides and the non-LTE
radiative transfer in the 2D geometry is solved using the MALI numerical
technique. The orientation of plasma flows in the slab is defined by the
azimuth and inclination angles. Diverse unresolved plasma motions in individual
flux-tubes are included via micro-turbulence velocity as one of input parameters
of the model. At present, we are using the model for the Hα line
spectroscopic observations of a filament one day before its eruption. The observations
were made with the IBIS interferometer at the Dunn Solar Telescope on May 29, 2017.
In some positions at the filament downflows of cool plasma (of temperature of 9000 K)
and rather large velocities (their LOS component exceeds 7 km/s) were found with the
modelling. In other hand, plasma in other parts of the filament is almost not moving
but it was heated to much higher temperatures (up to 13000 K). Such results agree with
the fact that the filament is in the state of activation. Comparison of distributions
of the intensities at the Hα line centre across the filament with the model
suggests necessity of using a multi-slab model. Development of such model is planed
in a close future. Introducing variations of temperature and pressure within individual
flux-tubes is also intended.


### Downloads

[Seminar video](https://folk.uio.no/tiago/espos/videos/2018-10-18-Schwartz.mp4)
