---
layout:     post
title:      "The Small-Scale Structure and Motions Underneath an On-Disk Solar Prominence"
subtitle:   "by Jack Jenkins"
date:       2020-03-19 11:00:00
author:     "Mullard Space Science Laboratory (MSSL)"
#header-img: "img/im_20120-03-19-Jenkins.jpg"
published:  true
---

## Abstract
Solar prominences are typically considered clouds of plasma suspended, bound, and governed within the solar corona solely by their host magnetic ﬁeld. That said, recent studies have suggested we reconsider the (widely-adopted!) assumption that prominence mass has a negligible role to play in the (in)stability of this host magnetic ﬁeld. Speciﬁcally, such studies have suggested that the contribution of mass to the global equilibrium of quiescent prominences is quite the opposite. Of course, the plethora of observations of the vertical motions within quiescent prominences (typically interpreted as occurrences of the Rayleigh-Taylor instability) have already suggested the importance of mass on smaller scales. The further suggestion that these falling ‘plasmoids’ may then successfully drain from the prominence-hosting magnetic ﬁeld and subsequently cease to contribute to the global equilibrium is, therefore, of particular interest. We present the latest results of our ongoing study that combines high-resolution ground-based observations (H-α, Ca II 8542, He I 10830) taken at the Dunn Solar Telescope (DST) with multiple inversion methods that involve a varying degree of assumption/complexity. I will brieﬂy present the instrument set-up and resulting observations of an on-disk prominence from 29 May 2017. Each inversion approach and their individual results will then be discussed, before the construction of one possible framework that accounts for all of the observations. I will then ﬁnish with details of a tentative detection of an RTI-like structure located beneath the observed prominence.
