---
layout:     post
title:      "Generalized Fluid Models of the Braginskii-type"
subtitle:   "Peter Hunana"
date:       2022-06-23 11:00:00
author:     "Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias (IAC), Spain"
#header-img: "img/2022-06-23-Hunana.jpg"
published:  true
---

## Abstract
Several generalizations of the well-known fluid model of Braginskii (Rev. of Plasma Phys., 1965) are considered. We use the Landau collisional operator and the moment method of Grad. We focus on the 21-moment model that is analogous to the Braginskii model, and we also consider a 22-moment model. Both models are formulated for general multi-species plasmas with arbitrary masses and temperatures, where all the fluid moments are described by their evolution equations. The 21-moment model contains two “heat flux vectors” (3rd and 5th-order moments) and two “viscosity-tensors” (2nd and 4th-order moments). The Braginskii model is then obtained as a particular case of a one ion-electron plasma with similar temperatures, with de-coupled heat fluxes and viscosity-tensors expressed in a quasi-static approximation. We provide all the numerical values of the Braginskii model in a fully analytic form (together with the 4th and 5th-order moments). For multi-species plasmas, the model makes calculation of transport coefficients straightforward. Formulation in fluid moments (instead of Hermite moments) is also suitable for implementation into existing numerical codes. It is emphasized that it is the quasi-static approximation which makes some Braginskii coefficients divergent in a weakly-collisional regime. Importantly, we show that the heat fluxes and viscosity-tensors are coupled even linearly and that the fully contracted (scalar) perturbations of the 4th-order moment, which are accounted for in the 22-moment model, modify the energy exchange rates.

### Presentation (slides)

[https://science-media.org/presentation/588](https://science-media.org/presentation/588)
