---
layout:     post
title:      "Flare Ribbons and the Reconnection (Flux) Rate"
subtitle:   "Sushree Sangeeta Nayak"
date:       2026-04-23 11:00:00
author:     "University of the Balearic Islands (UIB), ES"
published:  true
---

## Abstract
Flare ribbons are a quintessential part of a flare. They are extensively used to understand the overlying reconnection mechanism and overall flaring process. Further, the reconnection rate is a key parameter in the magnetic reconnection process. But it is difficult to estimate the rate from direct observations at higher heights in the solar atmosphere. However, flare ribbons are believed to be one of the major energy deposition sites and the imprints of reconnection occurring at higher altitudes. Utilizing this advantage to map the reconnection rate at the corona, Qiu et al. (2002, 2006) had provided an approach to estimate the flux and flux rate in a flare.

In the talk, I will discuss about the application of this method to multiple wavelengths in the solar atmosphere using high resolution data from ground-based Multi Application Solar Telescope (MAST)/Udaipur Solar Observatory in Ca II 8542 line, and data in UV and EUV channels from the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) and Helioseismic Magnetic Imager (HMI) onboard the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). I will highlight the interesting profiles of reconnection flux and associated rates for all the channels in ribbon (sub)structures, along with the probable nature of reconnection occurring there. The work also explains the triggering mechanism behind the reconnection in 3D using the non-force-free-field (NFFF) extrapolation model.



